## What You Won't Learn in Your Operating Systems Class

### CS370

I recently took my university's operating systems class this summer, and I found that, while the class definitely covered some important and useful topics, there was a great deal of OS topics that were left out. This is understandable, since there is only so much that can be covered in a single course, and if you find operating systems to be really interesting (like me), you'll want to seek out some additional resources to fuel that OS interest.

Our primary textbook for the class was [Operating Systems Concepts](https://drive.uqu.edu.sa/_/mskhayat/files/MySubjects/2017SS%20Operating%20Systems/Abraham%20Silberschatz-Operating%20System%20Concepts%20(9th,2012_12).pdf), with [Modern Operating Systems](https://csc-knu.github.io/sys-prog/books/Andrew%20S.%20Tanenbaum%20-%20Modern%20Operating%20Systems.pdf) as an additional, optional resource. They are both good books, and an earlier edition of Modern Operating Systems is what Linus Torvalds used to learn about operating systems and eventually write the Linux kernel, so it is certainly proven to be comprehensive. But the problem with both of these books is that they are passive resources. I (and maybe other people too) learn best by actually doing the thing, which for computer science subjects means programming, lots of programming. 

Some of the assignments for the OS class I took were challenging, but none were exceptionally difficult like I was expecting, they were mostly done in C (with one in Java) and they covered memory management, multithreading, using system calls, scheduling algorithms, and process statistics. I learned much more from these assignments than simply reading the textbooks, and I was hoping to dive in a bit deeper into operating systems, but thankfully I've been able to find another resource to feed my interest in operating systems now that I'm done with the class.

### Operating Systems: From 0 to 1

I found this free e-book called [Operating Systems: From 0 to 1](https://github.com/tuhdo/os01), which goes extremely in-depth into how an operating system works, and is centered around a project in which you build your own basic operating system for an x86 machine. I'm about halfway through the book so far, and it actually covers much more than just operating system development. The book starts off by covering some general software development concepts such as problem domains, how to use datasheets and other documents effectively, and effective problem solving techniques. 

This book also covers computer hardware, x86 assembly language, the Linux development environment, linking and loading on bare metal with C, and other low-level systems topics. This all culminates in the development of your own operating system, which I have not gotten to just yet. It seems to cover everything about operating systems that we didn't get to in my OS class, which is why I've been working through it and am recommending it for anyone else who wants to learn more about operating systems.