## Remap Key Bindings with keyd on Linux

### New Keyboard

I recently got a new keyboard that does not have any dedicated arrow keys, which is a problem for all but the most elite Vim-using programmers, so I spent some time figuring out how to remap some of the keybindings in order to stay sane while using this keyboard for programming and anything else that requires the occasional arrow key. Yes, I could just get better with Vim, but I'm not a fan of the hjkl bindings for navigation, and I wanted something I could use system-wide, not just in a single text editor.

### keyd

I found several key remapping utilities that didn't work, and finally one that did work: [keyd](https://github.com/rvaiya/keyd). What's nice about this tool is that it is not tied to a single environment like X11, Gnome, or Wayland, and runs on any Linux distribution as long as it uses systemd. Really the only downside of this tool is that it is far from being user-friendly. It is definitely oriented towards developers, hackers, or really anyone who is comfortable in a Linux terminal (there is no gui). I find the documentation online to be very limited, and the man page is by far the most helpful resource for trying to figure out how to do something with keyd: ```man keyd```. The installation process is also somewhat manual and occasionally confusing, so I made a script and default config file with my preferences to speed up the setup process. You can find them on my [GitHub](https://github.com/aidan-palmer/keyd-setup).

### Customize Your Keys

The methods for changing your key bindings in the keyd config file are not the most intuitive, but there are ways to make your keyboard do just about anything if you're willing to read through the man page and do some trial-and-error to get your desired setup.
Personally, I found the ```overload``` function to be especially useful for my circumstances. It allows you to have a key act differently depending on whether it is held down or pressed once. I used it to make the caps lock key much more useful by retaining the original caps lock function when pressed a single time, but when it is held down I can use the i,j,k,l keys as arrow keys. This feels more natural than the Vim navigation keys, and they're in a better location than standard arrow keys.
You can also use ```layer``` to completely replace the normal functioning of a key like caps lock, or ```oneshot``` to change what a key does after it is pressed a single time.

Also, I can't make a post about keyboards without leaving this video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uHt01D6rOLI). 