## The Best Time of Year for Programming

### [Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/)
I've really gotten into doing the Advent of Code programming puzzles this year. I initially started doing them as soon as they came out at the beginning of this month, but had to pause my progress so that I could get through finals week and finish the semester. Now I can spend as much time as I want implementing recursive pathfinding algorithms so that [reindeer can find hiking trails at a lava production facility.](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/10)

Some of these problems are getting exceedingly difficult. I'm only on Day 13 so far and have had to skip a couple of days that had me completely stuck. I also chose to do the problems all in C++ instead of a more popular language for these problems such as Python or Java. While I consider myself to be fairly adept with C++, I am definitely learning a lot more about some of its data structures and algorithms libraries than I was expecting. Like, I never knew that C++ had tuple as a data structure, and now that I've used C++ tuples, I hope to never have to use them again simply due to how unintuitive the tuple syntax and member functions are.

### Advent of Code vs. Leetcode
I think that Leetcode is great for learning essential algorithmic patterns and getting a good grasp of how to do technical interviews, but Leetcode questions get pretty boring after a while. The thing that I like about Advent of Code is that you are never simply told "use an A* search algorithm for this" or "invert this binary tree." Instead, the Advent of Code problems are described in such a way that you have to come up with some unique algorithm that might be similar to a well-known algorithm, but the requirements are different enough that you have to figure it out yourself rather than relying on some pseudocode you found online.

### Follow Along
I've made a repository on my [Github](https://github.com/aidan-palmer/advent-of-code) where I've been posting my solutions as I've been solving these problems. Feel free to check out my solutions if you get stuck, and only do these puzzles in C++ if you don't mind dealing with endless seg faults.